Profiling of certain DFHack scripts for Dwarf Fortress mod "The Long Night" v7.5.

profiling was performed on these DFHack Lua scripts:
    ruins.lua
    ruins_big.lua
    ruins_stonefloor.lua
    stonereplace.lua

Dwarf Fortress v53.12 and a customized DFHack v53.12-r1 was used.  the customisations
allowed the profiler to use the Windows API calls QueryPerformanceCounter and
QueryPerformanceFrequency.  no other customizations were made.

the profiler was the Pepperfish profiler supplied with DFhack, modified to use
QueryPerformanceCounter, and with a wrapper around the API to make it easier to use.
custom code was used to annotate copies of the scripts with the generated profiling
results.
annotations were not added to function definitions with less than three hundred
microseonds of execution time (including children).  (TODO tune)
annotations were not added to individual lines with less than 25 hits.  (TODO tune)

the source data set was the Dwarf Fortress mod "Squamous_The_Long_Night (225)",
zipfile name "The Long Night 7.5.zip".  the version profiled was the 2026-05-11 beta
test, which is at least the second variant of version 225.
the zipfile was downloaded from a Discord post on the DFHack server,
posted by user Squamous on 2026-05-11 at 12:24 AM GMT,
https://discord.com/channels/793331351645323264/807443277132595211/1503538348143415317

replacement scripts for ruins.lua, ruins_smoothfloor.lua, and stonereplace.lua
were downloaded from another Discord post on the DFHack server,
posted by user Squamous on 2026-05-12 at 10:48 PM GMT,
https://discord.com/channels/793331351645323264/807443277132595211/1503876478952017960
and are presumably the most recent versions.  (ruins.lua had my notes and timing
code -- it is questionable whether it is the actual most recent; however the version
in the zipfile is dated 2026-04-30.)

the world was created in Detailed mode, with all vanilla configuration mods removed
and the "The Long Night" mod file installed.  the worldgen parameter set was 
"LONG NIGHT SMALL DENSE".  the parameter "End Year" was changed to 250.  worldgen was
not monitored but appeared to complete normally.  there were a few errors logged in
errorlog.txt, but nothing relevant.

the site tested was a player fortress, size 3x3, with three biomes: 5 tiles of
temperate conifer forest, three tiles of temperate savanna, and one tile of badlands.
this was chosen to allow both ruins.lua and ruins_big.lua to run.  Play now! was used.
it was quite difficult to find forests -- there were only two small conifer forests
on the map.

the top stone layer were plastcrete variants.  there appeared to be no pebbles or
boulder tiles of any stone type that would be processed by ruins_smoothfloor.lua,
so smoothing of these tile types could not be tested.  the next stone layer was a
light structure variant for the forest and savanna, and a decayed structure variant
for the badlands.  the badlands' third layer was a heavy structure type.
additionally there was a median structure and a heavy structure (badlands biome) at
the first cavern level.  the map had a magma pipe, so smoothing (or lack thereof)
of lava stone (slag) could be tested.

profiling involved editing each script to start the profiler at the start of the
script, and stop the profiler and process the results at the end of the script.
the profiler defaults of 'time' and '10000' were used.  the global state variable
for each script was also set to nil at the start of profiling.

the ruins.lua script was edited to change the names of the QueryPerformance*
functions, because these had changed in the customised DFHack build.

the stonereplace.lua script did not support parameter 'force'.  the 'enable' parameter
was used with these code changes: the calls to start_watcher() and schedule_initial()
were commented out.

each script was executed separately, with no other mod scripts running or previously
run on the savegame.  this was enforced by disabling the mod's loader, ln_autoload.lua.

each script was executed with the commandline parameter 'force'.  this parameter runs
all of the script code at once instead of executing via a timer callback.
(the profiler does not support timer callbacks.)

before each profiling run, the game was stopped (generally using 'die') and
restarted, and the savegame was loaded.  after load, the game's main window
was minimized, and the script being profiled was started from the DFhack 
console window.  profiling was performed on savegame tick 0 -- i.e. the game
was not allowed to advance the simulation.

fort-mode profiling:

profiling of ruins.lua turned up a bug in the profiler -- nested functions
that are closures are not handled correctly.  data for these functions will
be deleted manually.  later: or perhaps not -- some closures are handled
properly.  needs more analysis.  this issue corrupted data for one nested
function, but is otherwise not relevant to the profiling results.
later: closures are very much a problem.  they balloon the size of the
profiling output files, and my script-annotation code doesn't deal with
this well.

ruins_smoothfloor.lua profiled without issues.

ruins_big.lua runs and profiles, but doesn't seem to modify the map, despite
having a biome that should have allowed the script to do its work.

stonereplace is only necessary in adventure mode; it doesn't even profile in
fort mode.

adventure-mode profiling:

still can't test the timer code.  stonereplace was profiled in save A1, a
large city, just outside the entrance to the keep, as entered from fast
travel.  the script ran very fast.  stonereplace is not a problem.

ruins was profiled from save A2, an area with a grassland-type biome.  the
map south of the adventurer is snowy.  the structure creation succeeded with
some notable flaws with unusable up stairs.  good profiling run.

ruins_big runs for several seconds on save A2, but does not appear to modify
the map.  this is expected, since save A2 is not in a forest biome.  after
some time and frustration attempting to locate one of the two small forests,
the script was modified to also trigger on sand desert, rock desert, and
badlands biomes.
